[Aftershock] Design Doc Draft (#46666)
CleverRaven/Cataclysm-DDA: data/mods/Aftershock/README.md

# Design Document

> * As it becomes a total conversion mod it will look very different from the base game of Cataclysm: Dark Days Ahead and may not interact kindly with other mods.  If you've been away for a while you may wonder where some parts of Aftershock have gone.  In the process of becoming a total conversion mod we are eliminating items that no longer fit the theme.  For example, all the Mad Max aesthetics are currently removed.  For them to come back would require someone to write up a location/faction that made them make sense in a futuristic extrasolar colony.  

Author: Good point I more just wanted to head off any "why don't you bring back the flamethrower guitar?!?!?"

> * As it becomes a total conversion mod it will look very different from the base game of Cataclysm: Dark Days Ahead and may not interact kindly with other mods.  If you've been away for a while you may wonder where some parts of Aftershock have gone.  In the process of becoming a total conversion mod we are eliminating items that no longer fit the theme.  For example, all the Mad Max aesthetics are currently removed.  For them to come back would require someone to write up a location/faction that made them make sense in a futuristic extrasolar colony.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* As it becomes a total conversion mod, it will look very different from the base game of Cataclysm: Dark Days Ahead and may not interact kindly with other mods.  If you've been away for a while, you may wonder where some parts of Aftershock have gone.  In the process of becoming a total conversion mod, we are eliminating items that no longer fit the theme.  For example, all the Mad Max aesthetics have been removed.  For them to come back would require someone to write up a location/faction that made them make sense in a futuristic extrasolar colony.  
```

Reviewer 2: Have been implies we are done, there is still plenty of stuff that needs auditing (like refrigerators)

> Aftershock is being developed into a full conversion mod set in a mostly abandoned extrasolar colony named Salus 4.  The PC has arrived on Salus for various reasons depending on their profession.  Eventually we hope to have multiple potential end game situations such as finding what you came here for and leaving the planet with enough money to retire to more secret endings.  There will no longer be zombies but instead a variety of alien and human based enemies.  Toe to toe combat will likely be more deadly in Aftershock with more emphasis on picking your battles and only fighting when absolutely necessary.  Special locations may have a different combat aesthetic for example you may enter a dungeon like zone with hordes of small weak enemies that can't be avoided.  As part of this concept where different situations require different solutions we have implemented bionic slots but made the process of changing out CBMs much easier with less chance of failure.  This is to encourage players to change their loadout based on where they are going and what they are doing.

Reviewer 2: Do you think you could add an extra space here? It'll help the readability.

> Aftershock is being developed into a full conversion mod set in a mostly abandoned extrasolar colony named Salus 4.  The PC has arrived on Salus for various reasons depending on their profession.  Eventually we hope to have multiple potential end game situations such as finding what you came here for and leaving the planet with enough money to retire to more secret endings.  There will no longer be zombies but instead a variety of alien and human based enemies.  Toe to toe combat will likely be more deadly in Aftershock with more emphasis on picking your battles and only fighting when absolutely necessary.  Special locations may have a different combat aesthetic for example you may enter a dungeon like zone with hordes of small weak enemies that can't be avoided.  As part of this concept where different situations require different solutions we have implemented bionic slots but made the process of changing out CBMs much easier with less chance of failure.  This is to encourage players to change their loadout based on where they are going and what they are doing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aftershock is being developed into a full conversion mod, set in a mostly-abandoned extrasolar colony named Salus 4.  The player has arrived on Salus for various reasons (depending on their profession).  Eventually, we hope to have multiple potential end game situations, ranging from finding what you came here for and leaving the planet with enough money to retire to more-secret endings.  There will no longer be zombies; instead, there are a variety of alien and human-based enemies.  Toe-to-toe combat will likely be more deadly in Aftershock, with more emphasis on picking your battles and only fighting when absolutely necessary.  Special locations may have a different combat aesthetic; for example you may enter a dungeon-like zone with hordes of small weak enemies that can't be avoided.  As part of this concept where different situations require different solutions, we have implemented bionic slots but made the process of changing out CBMs much easier with less chance of failure.  This is to encourage players to change their loadout based on where they are going and what they are doing.
```
Note: A reduction in the default healing rate, counterbalanced by more-potent medical care, would make sense.

> ### Areas seeking contributors

Reviewer 2: This could do with being adapted into bullet points, as its a bit messy to read right now.

Faction interactions and new factions.  Currently there are two new factions in Aftershock. PrepNet and the Whately Clan.  PrepNet is seeking to build an independent colony and the Whatelys are mad scientists.  

> Uplifted animal mobs and mutation lines are always wanted.  I'd love to see someone make a Rabbit or Jackelope line.  Currently we have Mi-Go, Mastodon, and Cecaelian mutation trees.

Reviewer 2: Could this possibly be changed to "Snow Hare" instead of just "Rabbit or Jackalope" considering the cold enviroment of Salus?

Reviewer: Perhaps "Snow Hare or cold-adapted Jackalope"?

> Hi-tech item recipes.  Aftershock has its own special crafting for ultratech and we'd love to see what you come up with.

Reviewer 2: We can figure this out later, but we do want this to state the limit on the hi-tech items, by having a clear difference between tier 4 human tech/scrap (stuff that can be built today) tier 5 scap/tech (stuff that was prior to the fall, and required super advanced AI to manufacture) and alien tech, which I imagine will not be craft-able.

> Missions, locations, and lore snippets we want this to feel like a world just as real as Cataclysm Prime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Missions, locations, and lore snippets. We want this to feel like a world just as real as Cataclysm Prime.
```

> Missions, locations, and lore snippets we want this to feel like a world just as real as Cataclysm Prime.

Reviewer 2: Mainly here, In the future I'd like to include reference to wanting contributors to add more alien fauna/flora, moxphores, and robots but for now, due to the transitional state that Aftershock is in, I'd like to just have added here that we would appreciate any help that'll help the transition to extrasolar colonies, ie every day items and furniture, buildings, any stuff like that that helps the really barebones stuff.

# Design Document
* As it becomes a total conversion mod, it will look very different from the base game of Cataclysm: Dark Days Ahead and may not interact kindly with other mods.  If you've been away for a while, you may wonder where some parts of Aftershock have gone.  In the process of becoming a total conversion mod, we are eliminating items that no longer fit the theme.  For example, all the Mad Max aesthetics have been removed.  Any additions must either fit the general theme or have story driven reasons for the divergence, such as NPC quests to special locations.

> * Aftershock is being developed into a full conversion mod set in a mostly abandoned extrasolar colony named Salus 4.  The PC has arrived on Salus for various reasons depending on their profession.  Eventually we hope to have multiple potential end game situations such as finding what you came here for and leaving the planet with enough money to retire to more secret endings.  There will no longer be zombies but instead a variety of alien and human based enemies.  Toe to toe combat will likely be more deadly in Aftershock with more emphasis on picking your battles and only fighting when absolutely necessary.  Special locations may have a different combat aesthetic for example you may enter a dungeon like zone with hordes of small weak enemies that can't be avoided.  As part of this concept where different situations require different solutions we have implemented bionic slots but made the process of changing out CBMs much easier with less chance of failure.  This is to encourage players to change their loadout based on where they are going and what they are doing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Aftershock is being developed into a full conversion mod set in a mostly-abandoned extrasolar colony named Salus 4.  The player has arrived on Salus for various reasons (depending on their profession).  Eventually, we hope to have multiple potential end game situations, ranging from finding what you came here for and leaving the planet with enough money to retire to more-secret endings.  There will no longer be zombies; instead, there are a variety of alien and human-based enemies.  Toe-to-toe combat will likely be more deadly in Aftershock, with more emphasis on picking your battles and only fighting when absolutely necessary.  Special locations may have a different combat aesthetic; for example, you may enter a dungeon-like zone with hordes of small weak enemies that can't be avoided.  As part of this concept, in which different situations require different solutions, we have implemented bionic slots but made the process of changing out CBMs much easier with less chance of failure.  This is to encourage players to change their loadout based on where they are going and what they are doing.
```

### Areas seeking contributors
1. Faction interactions and new factions.  Currently there are two new factions in Aftershock. PrepNet and the Whately Clan.  PrepNet is seeking to build an independent colony and the Whatelys are mad scientists.  
2. Uplifted animal mobs and mutation lines are always wanted.  I'd love to see someone make a Snow Hare or Yeti line.  Currently we have Mi-Go, Mastodon, and Cecaelian mutation trees.
3. Hi-tech item recipes.  Aftershock has its own special crafting for ultratech and we'd love to see what you come up with.

> 4. Missions, locations, and lore snippets we want this to feel like a world just as real as Cataclysm Prime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Missions, locations, and lore snippets.  We want this to feel like a world just as real as Cataclysm Prime.
```

# Design Document
* As it becomes a total conversion mod, it will look very different from the base game of Cataclysm: Dark Days Ahead and may not interact kindly with other mods.  If you've been away for a while, you may wonder where some parts of Aftershock have gone.  In the process of becoming a total conversion mod, we are eliminating items that no longer fit the theme.  For example, all the Mad Max aesthetics have been removed.  Any additions must either fit the general theme or have story driven reasons for the divergence, such as NPC quests to special locations.

> * Aftershock is being developed into a full conversion mod set in a mostly-abandoned extrasolar colony named Salus 4.  The player has arrived on Salus for various reasons (depending on their profession).  Eventually, we hope to have multiple potential end game situations, ranging from finding what you came here for and leaving the planet with enough money to retire to more-secret endings.  There will no longer be zombies; instead, there are a variety of alien and human-based enemies.  Toe-to-toe combat will likely be more deadly in Aftershock, with more emphasis on picking your battles and only fighting when absolutely necessary.  Special locations may have a different combat aesthetic; for example, you may enter a dungeon-like zone with hordes of small weak enemies that can't be avoided.  As part of this concept, in which different situations require different solutions, we have implemented bionic slots but made the process of changing out CBMs much easier with less chance of failure.  This is to encourage players to change their loadout based on where they are going and what they are doing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Aftershock is being developed into a full conversion mod set in a mostly-abandoned extrasolar colony named Salus IV.  The player has arrived on Salus for various reasons (depending on their profession).  Eventually, we hope to have multiple potential end game situations, ranging from finding what you came here for and leaving the planet with enough money to retire to more-secret endings.  There will no longer be zombies; instead, there are a variety of alien and human-based enemies.  Toe-to-toe combat will likely be more deadly in Aftershock, with more emphasis on picking your battles and only fighting when absolutely necessary.  Special locations may have a different combat aesthetic; for example, you may enter a dungeon-like zone with hordes of small weak enemies that can't be avoided.  As part of this concept, in which different situations require different solutions, we have implemented bionic slots but made the process of changing out CBMs much easier with less chance of failure.  This is to encourage players to change their loadout based on where they are going and what they are doing.
```

Aftershock is being developed into a full conversion mod set in a mostly abandoned extrasolar colony named Salus 4.  The PC has arrived on Salus for various reasons depending on their profession.  Eventually we hope to have multiple potential end game situations such as finding what you came here for and leaving the planet with enough money to retire to more secret endings.  There will no longer be zombies but instead a variety of alien and human based enemies.  Toe to toe combat will likely be more deadly in Aftershock with more emphasis on picking your battles and only fighting when absolutely necessary.  Special locations may have a different combat aesthetic for example you may enter a dungeon like zone with hordes of small weak enemies that can't be avoided.  As part of this concept where different situations require different solutions we have implemented bionic slots but made the process of changing out CBMs much easier with less chance of failure.  This is to encourage players to change their loadout based on where they are going and what they are doing.

### Areas seeking contributors

> Faction interactions and new factions.  Currently there are two new factions in Aftershock. PrepNet and Whately Clan.  PrepNet is seeking to build an independent colony and the Whately's are mad scientists.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Faction interactions and new factions.  Currently there are two new factions in Aftershock. PrepNet and the Whately Clan.  PrepNet is seeking to build an independent colony and the Whatelys are mad scientists.  
```

> Uplifted animal mobs and mutation lines are always wanted.  I'd love to see someone make a Rabbit or Jackelope line.  Currently we have Mi-Go, Mastodon, and Cecaelian mutation trees.

Reviewer: Any differences on the mutation background (as in, determining what's more/less likely)?

Author: Mutations are no longer Blob driven in Aftershock, so there will be things more often seen in literature that aren't likely in Cataclysm: DDA such as animals that are similar in size to their current versions but have some ability to speak or other increased abilities.

Reviewer: Hmm... what's the climate like on this colony? (That may mean needed changes in JSONs currently set for New England, BTW.) If cold - Yeti?

Author: It's definitely colder than New England and so that's one set of the work is to make those kinds of changes.

Reviewer 2: Its very arctic/cold, very cold temperature ranges that make living without adequate protection impossible

Reviewer: Item, possibly with a bionic version/upgrade - ice skates. (The bionic part could be anything from blades that come out of your bionic feet to helping you balance on the skates.)

> Hi-tech item recipes.  Aftershock has it's own special crafting for ultratech and we'd love to see what you come up with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hi-tech item recipes.  Aftershock has its own special crafting for ultratech and we'd love to see what you come up with.
```

These are the files for Aftershock. Whatever you're looking for has been sorted into subfolders for ease of access:

### itemsgroups

Contains json data for itemgroups.

### items

Contains json data for all item types.

### maps

Contains json data for map generation, chunks, terrain, map specials and furniture.

### mobs

Contains json data for new monsters and monster spawn groups.

### monsterdrops

Contains the json which controls what monsters drop on death.

> ### muations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### mutations
```

Contains json for mutations and threshold dreams.

### player

> Contains json data for things that affect the player; bionics, mutations, professions, techniques, status effects, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contains json data for things that affect the player; bionics, professions, techniques, status effects, etc.
```
Bionics are not in items?

Reviewer 2: Bionics are strange; acting as both trait-like things, and an item.

I imagine there will be some bionics that will only be accessible via professions, and can't be installed via normal game play

Author: Even then they'd have to be items as well because otherwise it would cause error's when you remove the bionic.

These are the files for Aftershock. Whatever you're looking for has been sorted into subfolders for ease of access:

### itemsgroups

Contains json data for itemgroups.

### items

Contains json data for all item types.

### maps

Contains json data for map generation, chunks, terrain, map specials and furniture.

### mobs

Contains json data for new monsters and monster spawn groups.

### monsterdrops

Contains the json which controls what monsters drop on death.

> ### muations

Reviewer: Mutations?

Contains json for mutations and threshold dreams.

### player

> Contains json data for things that affect the player; bionics, mutations, professions, techniques, status effects, etc.

Reviewer: Mutations should be removed.

### npcs

> Contains json data for npcs, factions, and design document for any new factions, specific new factions PrepPhyle and Whately Clan.  The PrepPhyle are a group of frontier squatters taking advantage of decaying colony infrastructure to set up an independent colonoy separate from Corporate and Earthgov influences.  The Whately Clan are a possibly exiled branch of a corporate executive family.  They are mad, bad, and dangerous to know.

Reviewer 2: Prepnet, or PrepPhyle? Both are mentioned in file

Author: It's PrepNet Phyle.  So both are shortened versions.

### npcs

> Contains json data for npcs, factions, and design document for any new factions, specific new factions PrepPhyle and Whately Clan.  The PrepPhyle are a group of frontier squatters taking advantage of decaying colony infrastructure to set up an independent colonoy separate from Corporate and Earthgov influences.  The Whately Clan are a possibly exiled branch of a corporate executive family.  They are mad, bad, and dangerous to know. Mutant NPCs are also located in this folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contains json data for npcs, factions, and design document for any new factions, specific new factions PrepPhyle and Whately Clan.  The PrepPhyle are a group of frontier squatters taking advantage of decaying colony infrastructure to set up an independent colonoy separate from Corporate and Earthgov influences.  The Whately Clan are a possibly-exiled branch of a corporate executive family.  They are mad, bad, and dangerous to know. Mutant NPCs are also located in this folder.
```
